 This paper first starts by going into the importance of science and technology in sustainability.  It spans from more efficient cook stoves to agricultural research into many more categories.  Historically, we have had a few that have been successful, but many failures.  

This paper claims that a big problem is the relation between the researchers and the decision makers.  Many times the science will be there to fix or help a problem, but we still don't see problem solving and decision-making activities. A quick example that comes to mind is with global warming.  Scientists have known and complained about this issue for many years, and still it has had a very slow acceptance of being a problem.  Many important political members still don't accept it as a real problem, even though there is outstanding science that has confirmed it.  That is just a political example, yet we see examples occur consistently.

I think of this whenever I hear the term that something was ahead of it's time.  This shows that the technology and quality was there, but the people were not yet able to take it in for one reason or the other.  An example of this disconnect between idea and decision makers can be seen with the iPad.  Windows came out with a tablet computer back in 2000.  They later improved on it in 2002.  It was not widely accepted and it didn't make a splash.  10 years after Window's tablet computer, Apple came out with the iPad, which was wildly successful and we have seen a massive tablet market emerge.  

As for a solution, we have to look back at the postwar international agricultural research system.  That was a time that we didn't have economic and political competition with each other and there was a strong scientific base.  Right now, different actors want very different outcomes.  We could have a boundary organization that played and intermediary role that created rules and took care of accountability.  Ideally this would lead to more technological feats and assimilation.  
